---
title: "A Few Notes on Moving This Blog"
date: 2024-12-26
slug: "blog20241226"
description: "Some notes on moving the blog and changing its theme."
keywords: ["personal", "blog", "migration"]
draft: false
tags: ["Diary"]
math: false
ShowToc: false
---

## About the Move

For personal reasons, **I deleted my Google account earlier this year. As a result, my [old GitHub account](https://github.com/ibrights/) could no longer pass 2FA, which meant I could no longer update articles at my [old blog address](https://ibrights.github.io/)**. So I registered a new [GitHub account](https://github.com/masonblog/) and moved the old posts here.

I wonder how many people had bookmarked the old address. From their point of view, I may have simply stopped updating forever. That is one of the biggest drawbacks of publishing personal writing on a low-social static blog: there is no real way to contact readers. I cannot forward this migration notice to any old reader, which is a real pity :disappointed:.

Since I changed both the GitHub account and the blog address, I also changed my pen name from Bright to Mason. Bright, a name that never sounded all that native, actually came from one of my favorite video games, *The Legend of Heroes: Trails in the Sky*. Bright is the family name of the game's protagonists. During graduate school, my Legal English teacher, an old San Francisco boy named David, once gently told me that Bright did not really suit me. So I started using Mason, a more natural English name, though I still like the word Bright very much :slightly_smiling_face:.

I am saying all this for any old readers who may happen to find the new blog: **Bright and Mason are the same person**. But perhaps saying it is pointless. Let it all go with the wind :wave:.

## About the Theme Change

I have always used [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) to generate my static blog. The method is described in [this post](/post/blog20200310). The old theme was [Hugo-fuji](https://github.com/dsrkafuu/hugo-theme-fuji), created by a Chinese developer. It was clean and simple, and I liked it a lot.

**Unfortunately, newer versions of Hugo deprecated several modules that Hugo-fuji depended on, making the theme incompatible with the current version of Hugo. The author also seems to have stopped maintaining the project two or three years ago. So I had to change themes.**

After looking around, I found that there really are not many simple and good-looking themes. In the end I chose [Hugo-PaperMod](https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod), which is the theme you see now. It supports more customization and adapts well across platforms, though it is not as simple to use as Hugo-fuji.

That is all my rambling about moving the blog and changing themes. I hope it was not too tedious. I will keep updating posts here and try to post a little more often. As for YouTube and the podcast, I also want to restart them. Who knows how long I can keep it up this time?
