---
title: "Technical Notes on Building a Site with Hugo and PaperMod"
date: 2024-12-30
slug: "blog20241230"
description: "This page records some of the technical details of how I used Hugo to build this website."
keywords: ["GitHub", "Hugo", "PaperMod", "Tutorial", "Build a website"]
draft: false
tags: ["Tech"]
math: false
ShowToc: true
Cover:
  image: "/images/blog20241230/masonblog.png"
---

When I first started building this blog 4 years ago, I wrote a short [article](/post/blog20200310/) introducing some of the tools I used when building the website. Today, many of the tools mentioned in that article are obsolete. In addition to the overall migration of this blog and the use of the new [PaperMod](https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod) theme, the configuration methods of many functions have changed. So I decided to write another article to record some of the technical details of my tossing around with this new topic.

#Configuration file syntax

Hugo also supports three configuration file syntaxes, namely `YAML`, `TOML` and `JSON`. They are all commonly used data serialization and configuration file formats, and each has its own characteristics and applicable scenarios.

## YAML (YAML Ain't Markup Language)

`YAML` is a human-readable data serialization format commonly used for configuration files and data exchange. Its syntax format is:
```yaml
name: John Doe
age: 30
city: New York
hobbies:
- reading
- traveling
```
Its characteristics are:

- Concise syntax, easy to read and write

- Supports comments, multi-line strings and complex data structures

- Use indentation to indicate hierarchical relationships

## TOML (Tom's Obvious, Minimal Language)

`TOML` is a language designed to be a minimal configuration file format, designed to be easy to read and write. Its syntax is:
```toml
[person]
name = "John Doe"
age = 30
city = "New York"
[person.hobbies]
favorite = "reading"
others = ["traveling", "photography"]
```
Its characteristics are:

- The syntax is intuitive and easy to understand

- Support comments

- Supports multiple data types, including date and time

- Allows creation of nested data structures

## JSON (JavaScript Object Notation)

JSON is a lightweight data exchange format, originally derived from JavaScript, but now widely used in various programming languages. Its syntax format is:
```javascript
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 30,
  "city": "New York"
}
```
Its characteristics are:

- Concise and easy to read

- Fast parsing speed

- Highly compatible with JavaScript

- Support basic data types: string, number, boolean, null, object and array

Considering the readability and compatibility with the current theme, the configuration file syntax I chose is `YAML`. All the following configuration commands will be presented in `YAML` format. It is worth noting that **YAML is very sensitive to indentation. When rendering with Hugo, even if a line is missing a space, the rendering will fail, so pay special attention**.

# Add article timeline page (Archives)

Create a new `archieves.md` in the `/Content/` directory and write the following content:
```markdown
---

title: "Archive"
layout: "archives"
url: "/archives/"
summary: archives

---
```
#Add search page (Search)

Step 1: Add the following content in the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
outputs:
  home:
    - HTML
    - RSS
    - JSON # required for the search page
```
Step 2: Create a new `archieves.md` in the `/Content/` directory and write the following content:
```yaml
---
title: "Search" # use any language you prefer
layout: "search" # required for the search page
# url: "/archive"
# description: "Description for Search"
summary: "search"
placeholder: "Enter search keywords here"
---
```
#Add menu

Add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
menu:
  main:
    - name: Posts
      url: archives
      weight: 5
    - name: Search
      url: search/
      weight: 10
    - name: Tags
      url: tags/
      weight: 10
    - name: About
      url: about/
      weight: 10
```
# Enable Emoji :white_check_mark:

Hugo natively supports Emoji rendering, just add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
enableEmoji: true
```
In this way, as long as you enter `:emojiname:` ​​that conforms to Markdown syntax in the `.md` file (write the Emoji name between two half-width colons), you can enter an Emoji. You can query the Emoji names in Markdown syntax in [this list](https://gist.github.com/rxaviers/7360908).

# Add Favicon icon

You can refer to my [article](/post/blog20210527/), visit [this website](https://favicon.io/), convert your favorite site icon image into `Favicon` special format, and put all the generated files in the `/static/` directory.

Optional: If you want to put the icon file into a subdirectory of `/static/`, such as `/static/favicon/`, you also need to add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
params:
  assets:
    favicon: "/favicon/favicon.ico"
    favicon16x16: "/favicon/favicon-16x16.png"
    favicon32x32: "/favicon/favicon-32x32.png"
    apple_touch_icon: "/favicon/apple-touch-icon.png"
    safari_pinned_tab: "/favicon/safari-pinned-tab.svg" 
```
# Enable code copy button

Add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
params:
  ShowCodeCopyButtons: true
```
# The page turn button displays the page number

Add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
params:
  ShowPageNums: true
```
# Add an RSS subscription button to the article list page

Add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
params:
  ShowRssButtonInSectionTermList: true
```
# RSS Feed output full text

Add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
params:
  ShowFullTextinRss: true
```
# Open external links in new tabs

Create a new `render-link.html` in the `/themes/theme name/layouts/_default/_markup/` directory and write the following content:
```html
<a href="{{ .Destination | safeURL }}"{{ with .Title}} title="{{ . }}"{{ end }}{{ if strings.HasPrefix .Destination "http" }} target="_blank" rel="noopener"{{ end }}>{{ .Text | safeHTML }}</a>
```
# Customize hyperlink style

PaperMod theme supports custom CSS. We can change the default hyperlink style of the website through custom CSS, such as color, underline, and changes when the mouse is hovered.

Create a new `custom.css` in the `/themes/theme name/assets/css/extended/` directory and write the following content:
```css
.post-content a {
  color: #0969da;
  box-shadow: none;
  text-decoration: none;
}

.post-content a:hover {
  text-decoration: underline;
}
```
This code will set the hyperlink color in the article content to blue (#0969da) and add an underline on mouseover.

# SEO optimization related

**SEO (Search Engine Optimization) is a method of improving a website's natural ranking in search engine results pages by optimizing its content and structure**. The goal of SEO is to increase the organic traffic of the website, improve the visibility of the website, and attract more target audiences. To do SEO optimization for Hugo site, we need to do the following:

## Configuration file optimization

Add the website description in the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
params:
  description: "Your site description"
```
Similarly, we can also set the title, keywords and description for each article, and add the following content at the head of the `.md` file to define the basic information of the article:
```markdown
---
title: "Post Title"
keywords:
  - keyword1
  - keyword2
description: "Post description"
---
```
## Create sitemap sitemap

A sitemap is an important website document that provides search engines and users with an overview of your website's structure. To create a sitemap for a Hugo site, add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
sitemap:
  changefreq: weekly
  filename: sitemap.xml
  priority: 0.5
```
Among them, `changefreq` represents the update frequency, `filename` represents the generated site map file name, and `priority` represents the default priority of the page. In this way, Hugo will generate a `sitemap.xml` file in the root directory of the website so that search engines can understand the website structure.

## Create robots.txt crawler index

`Robots.txt` is a plain text file located in the root directory of the website. It is used to submit the sitemap to search engines and instruct search engines how to access and index the website content. To create a `robots.txt` for a Hugo site, add the following content to the configuration file `config.yml`:
```yaml
enableRobotsTXT: true
```
In this way, Hugo will automatically generate the `Robots.txt` file in the root directory of the website.

# Reference link

[Introduction | Hugo](https://gohugo.io/about/introduction/)

[Home · adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod Wiki](https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod/wiki)

[Tossing Hugo & PaperMod Theme - Dvel's Blog](https://dvel.me/posts/hugo-papermod-config/)

[Build Hugo’s personal website | PaperMod theme | ed](https://eddy.lu/posts/hugo/)

[PaperMod theme configuration | 🚀 Tian Shaohan’s personal blog](https://www.shaohanyun.top/posts/env/blog_build2/)
